= Managing Your Email

== Managing Your Email

You can view your email messages as single messages or as conversations and
you can view messages with the Reading Pane off, displayed at the bottom, or
displayed on the right.

To change how messages are grouped in your mailbox, on the toolbar click
View and select whether to view by conversation or by message and where you
want the Reading Pane to display.

=== View Email Messages by Conversation

In the Conversation view your messages are grouped to make it easier to
follow the thread of an email exchange. A conversation thread begins when
you send or receive an email and then send or receive subsequent replies and
forwards based on the original email. The subject displays only once in your
Inbox, and the number of email messages in the conversation is
shown. Conversations containing unread messages are shown in bold.

Conversations can span folders. For example, one could be in your Inbox
another in your Sent folder, and others in another folder. If you move a
conversation from one folder to another, all messages within that
conversation are also moved to that folder. Messages in the Sent folder and
in the Trash folder are not moved.

To create a new conversation thread, you must create a new message, not
reply to or forward an existing message.

=== Change the Message View

Email messages in your mailbox can be organized by the date a message is
received and by Conversation.

  . On the *Mail* tab toolbar, click the *View* drop-down menu.

  . Select either *By Conversation* or *By Message*.

== Changing How Often Your Account Checks for New Mail

You can set preferences for receiving new messages including how often you
receive email messages and whether you are notified when you receive new
messages.

Your account is updated with new messages based on the polling interval set
up in the mail preferences Check New Mail drop-down menu. The default is
every five minutes. If you are expecting an email message, you can click the
refresh icon on the right side of the toolbar any time to receive new email
immediately.

  . Go to the *Preferences>Mail* page.

  . In the *Displaying Messages>Check New Mail* drop-down menu select how often
    to check for new mail.
+
If you select *Manually* from the dropdown menu, you must click the reload
icon to get new email.

  . Click *Save*.

== Setting Desktop Alerts For New Email Messages

You can set up desktop alerts for new email notification. To receive alerts,
your mailbox must be opened.

  . Go to the *Preferences>Mail* page.

  . In the *Receiving Messages>Message Arrival* section, select how you want to
    be notified when new message arrive. Select any of these options.
+
[cols="1,2a", options="header"]
|=======================================================================
|Option |Description

|Play a sound |

You are notified by a beep. If you have your volume set to mute, you do not
hear a sound. For this to work, you must have either QuickTime or Windows
Media plugin installed.

|Highlight the Mail tab |

The Mail tab is highlighted if you are not working in the Mail tab at the
time.

|Flash the browser title |

Browser flashes until you open the Mail tab

|Show a popup notification |

Information about the message displays.

|=======================================================================


== Assigning Retention Policies to Email Folders

If your organization notifies you to apply an email message retention policy
to your email folders, you set the retention policy for each folder. You do
not set a retention policy on the Junk or Trash folders. You can also set
your own custom policy for a folder.

Two options can be set up:

  * *Message Retention*. When Enable Message Retention is selected, when you select to delete a message in the folder with a receive or sent date within the range configured, a warning displays stating that the message is within the folderâ€™s retention period to remind you not to delete the message.

  * *Message Disposal*. Messages in the folder that are older than the time configured are automatically deleted. You are not notified.

    . In the *Navigation* pane, right-click on a mail folder and select *Edit
      Properties*.

    . Click the *Retention* tab.

    . To set the retention policy, select *Enable Message Retention*.

    . In the *Retention Range* drop down list, select which retention policy to
      apply. If you are setting a custom policy, in the text box enter the number
      of years, months, weeks or days and select the period from the drop-down
      menu.

    . To set when messages should be deleted from the folder, select *Enable
      Message Disposal*.

    . In the *Disposal Threshold* drop down list, select which policy to apply. If
      you are setting a custom policy, in the text box enter the number of years,
      months, weeks or days and select the period from the drop-down menu.

    . Click *OK*.

== Delegate Others to Send Messages on Your Behalf

You can give other people permission to send email messages on your behalf.
When messages are sent on your behalf, the From address shows your name and
the name of the person who is sending the message. This is not the same a
sharing your Inbox with another person. The person who is sending a message
on your behalf is working in his own email account.  When a new message is
created, your name is selected from the From field drop-down menu as the
From address.

You can also give permission to people to send messages as you. The From
address shows your name and email address as the message sender, but the
actual message is sent from the delegated person's Inbox.

  . Go to the *Preferences>Accounts* page.

  . In the *Primary Account Settings>Delegates: The following users have
    delegated authority to this account* section, click *Add Delegate*.

  . Add the email address of the person you are delegating permission. This must
    be an internal user address.

  . Check the permissions you want to give.

  . Click *OK*.

An email message is sent to the person letting him know that he has been
granted delegate permissions.

== Group Messages in your Folders

In each of your folders, you can group message by date or by size in
ascending or descending order.

When you group messages by date, messages display grouped by messages
received today, yesterday, last week, two weeks ago, three weeks ago, last
month and older.

When you group messages by size, messages display grouped by enormous
(messages larger than 5MB) and tiny (messages less than 10KB), Grouping
message by size is a good way to manage your mailbox quota by finding the
largest messages to remove from your account.

You set this preference in each of your folders.

  . Select a folder, and in the Content pane header right-click and select
    *Group By*.

  . Select to group by date or size. You can also select none.

  . Select the order that the messages should be displayed, ascending or
    descending.

== Sorting Messages in the Content Pane

You can sort your email messages in a folder by Subject, Size, Date,
Attachment, Flag and Priority. You can only sort by one column at a time.

  * In the Content pane header, right-click and select the sorting option. The
    header displays the sort order.

== Automatically Move Less Important Mail Out of the Inbox

You can set up the Activity Stream filter to have email messages that are
less important, such as newsletters and social update communications,
delivered to the Activity Stream folder instead of your Inbox. The Activity
Stream Folder is added to your personal folders list in the Overview pane.

  . Click the gear icon in the *Folders* heading in the Navigation pane and
    select *Activity Stream*.
+
You can also set this up from the *Preferences>Filter* page, *Activity
Stream Settings*.

  . In the *Activity Stream* dialog box, select *Enable moving messages into
    Activity Stream*.

  . Select the type of messages to move. You can move the following type of
    messages:

    * Messages from people not in your Contacts

    * Messages from people not in your Contacts

    * Messages sent to a distribution list that you are a member of

    * Commercial mass marketing and bulk mail messages

  . Click *OK*.

  . In the information box that opens click *Yes*.

See Filtering for more information.

== Moving Email Messages

You can move email messages or entire conversations from a folder.

  * Drag and drop the item to the desired folder in the left-hand Overview pane.

  * Right click the message and select *Move*. The dialog appears for you to
    select where to move your message or conversation.

If you are moving a few messages within a conversation, the conversation
appears in both places. The Conversation Detail View window shows the new
location of the message that was moved.

[NOTE]
You can immediately undo the move. Click Undo that appears at the top of the
page to move the message back to its original location.

== Subscribing to RSS Feeds

You can subscribe to Web sites that provide your favorite RSS (Really Simple
Syndication) and podcast feeds to send updated information directly to your
mailbox. You must know the URL of the feed to set up the subscription.

  . Click the gear icon in the *Mail Folders* heading and select *New Folder*.

[NOTE]
You must create a separate folder for each RSS feed.

  . In the *Name* text box, type the name of the RSS feed folder.

  . Check *Subscribe to RSS/ATOM* feed.

  . Enter the URL for the feed in the *URL* field.

  . Select where to add the RSS feed folder in the Mail Folders menu. If you
    choose the root folder, the new folder is placed at the highest level in
    your folder view, which is the same level as your Inbox folder.

  . Click *OK*. The new folder appears in the Overview pane with the RSS feed
    icon image:images/2_manage_email00004.png[RSS, title="RSS"].

Your RSS data feed is automatically updated every 12 hours. Click *Load
Feed* in the toolbar to update the content at any time.

[NOTE]
RSS feeds you save count against your account quota.

== Removing Spam

Most filtering of unsolicited automated email (also known as *spam* or *junk
mail*) is handled by a spam filter before those email messages reach your
Inbox.

Email that might possibly be junk mail, but is not certain to be junk, is
placed in your Junk folder. You can review these messages and either move
them out of the *Junk* folder or delete them. If you do not move or delete
the messages, they are purged after a number of days as specified by your
administrator.

If you are receiving a large number of unwanted email messages, contact your
administrator. Reporting email as spam helps your email administrator to
fine-tune spam filtering.

=== Mark Email as Spam

  . Select the message to mark as junk.

  . On the toolbar, select *Spam*.

You can also right-click the message and select *Mark as Spam*.

The email is moved to your Junk folder.

=== Mark Email as Not Spam

Sometimes messages that are not junk are placed in the Junk folder. You can
move the messages to the appropriate folder.

  * Drag the message to another folder.

  * Right-click the message and select *Mark as Not Spam*. The selected message
    is moved to your Inbox.

=== Empty the Junk Folder

The contents of the Junk folder are automatically purged after an
administration-configured number of days. You can empty your Junk folder any
time.

  . Right-click the Junk folder and select *Empty Junk*.

  . Click *OK*.

== Setting Spam Mail Options to Block or to Allow Specific Addresses

You can setup your mail preferences to identify specific addresses to block
or not block in your Inbox. You create a list of addresses that should not
be added to your Inbox and addresses that always should be added to your
Inbox, but could be detected as spam. The spam filter uses this list to make
sure you get the email you expect.

If you notice that certain email addresses are always being incorrectly
added to your Inbox or Junk folder, you can identify those addresses to
block or not block.

  . Go to the *Preferences>Mail* page.

  . Scroll to the *Spam Mail Options* section.

  . In the *Block messages from* text box, enter email addresses that should
    always be treated as junk. You can list up to 100 addresses.

  . In the *Allow messages from* text box, enter email addresses you trust that
    for some reason end up in your Junk folder, such as newsletters you
    subscribe to. Messages from these email addresses are never blocked. You can
    list up to 100 addresses.

  . Click *Save*.

== Recover Items Purged from Trash

If *Recover Deleted Items* displays when you right-click the Trash folder,
you have the ability to recover email messages you deleted from Trash.

  . Right-click on the Mail Trash folder and select *Recover Deleted Items*.

  . Select one or more messages to recover.

  . Use the *Search* text box to find a specific item to recover.

  . Select the items you want to recover and click *Recover To*.

  . Select the destination folder or create a new folder.

  . Click *OK*.

== Finding the Origin of an Email Message

When you receive a message and you want to see message transport history,
you can right-click on a message and select Show Original. The text page
displays header information along with the text of the body of the message.

The header is sometimes referred to as the envelope information. The message
header details the path the message took from the sender to the
recipients. The header includes the IP addresses, dates, and spam flagging
information.

  * To find the origin of the message, right-click the message and select *Show
    Original*.

A new window opens with the information displayed.
